dubai courts need experts in different fields
dubai courts collecting documents from consultants
SOE will solicit the request for the courts and certify that the consultant is an expert

workflow

soe gets the documents from dubai courts
they will upload the documents (standard info+ qualifications) document could be any format
emirates id is the unique ID. certain fields are defined mandatory. 
document list needs to be their so that the applicant is ready for review . Time limit of 15 days for verifieny the document. 
on compleion of the verifying SOE will inform the candiddate  (test or training)

SME training  provided by SOE

test before or after training. If he cooses training or test... both has cash payments

test can happen either in SOE or Dubai Courts. (payment online) payment gateway integration for training nad test.
schedule  atime and date for test or training
two types MCQ and case studies (writing test)

after test 2nd .. soe can add comments 


 and pass or fail the test (will have to undergo training annd take both test

next  he will go for interview
he can pass or fail the interview (gpo for training) 
else he is an expert


portal available ofr nexternal and internal users
2 categories .. ind and org
login area
upload files in  order to settle a dispute
emirates ID, phone , skype , email, phone
dispute 
uniq file no is generated
file no is sent to the submitter

verify that all documents are there
SOE will verify the validity of the documents
SOE will send the case to arbitrator
arbitrator management for SOE
SOE can add a person as an arbitrator
view no of cases assigned to each arbitrator
chief arbirtrator
chief arb will receive the case and assign the case to a set of arbs
the arbs will respond or not respond and they will set their fee.
choef arb then makes the decision on who gets the acse
assigned arb can download the case files

SOE will schedule a meeting b/w the arb and the cleinet
arb  will upload the mins of meeting
if the case is resolved the chief arb will release the assigned arb fromj the case

SOE will add their fees or commision to the assigned arb fees.
clinets will pay the fee
